If you want to find which GitHub repository your current local folder is connected to, open Terminal in that project folder and run:

git remote -v

Example output:

origin  git@github.com:johnsmith/my-private-repo.git (fetch)
origin  git@github.com:johnsmith/my-private-repo.git (push)

This tells you your local repository is connected to:

GitHub user: johnsmith
Repository: my-private-repo

You can also get just the remote URL:

git remote get-url origin
If you're not sure whether the folder is a Git repository

Run:

git status
If it's a Git repository, you'll see the current branch and status.
If you see:
fatal: not a git repository (or any of the parent directories): .git

then you're not inside a Git repository.

If you want to know which GitHub account you're using via SSH

Run:

ssh -T git@github.com

It should respond with something like:

Hi your-github-username! You've successfully authenticated...

That tells you which GitHub account your SSH key authenticates as.

If your goal is different—for example, finding all repositories under your GitHub account or checking which repository you cloned—let me know which one you're trying to find.

how to change remote origin

You can change the origin remote to point to a different GitHub repository.

1. Check the current remote
git remote -v

Example:

origin  git@github.com:old-user/old-repo.git (fetch)
origin  git@github.com:old-user/old-repo.git (push)
2. Change the remote URL

Replace it with your new repository's SSH URL:

git remote set-url origin git@github.com:your-username/your-new-repo.git
3. Verify the change
git remote -v

You should now see:

origin  git@github.com:your-username/your-new-repo.git (fetch)
origin  git@github.com:your-username/your-new-repo.git (push)
4. Push to the new repository

If your branch is main:

git push -u origin main

Or if your branch is master:

git push -u origin master
Alternative: Remove and re-add the remote

If you prefer:

git remote remove origin
git remote add origin git@github.com:your-username/your-new-repo.git

If you're unsure of the exact SSH URL, paste the output of:

git remote -v

and tell me the name of the new GitHub repository you want to use. I can give you the exact command.

now in firebase i already have a project now in vs code in terminal how to deploy to firebase hosting a previous project

If you've already created the Firebase project and just want to deploy your app from VS Code, here's the process.

1. Install the Firebase CLI (if you haven't already)
npm install -g firebase-tools

Check it's installed:

firebase --version
2. Log in
firebase login

This opens your browser to authenticate.

3. Go to your project folder
cd /path/to/your/project
4. Initialize Firebase Hosting

Run:

firebase init hosting

When prompted:

Use an existing project → Select your existing Firebase project.
Public directory → Enter your build folder:
dist (Vite)
build (Create React App)
out (Next.js static export)
public (plain HTML site)
Configure as a single-page app?
Yes for React, Vue, Angular, Vite SPA
No for a simple static website
Overwrite existing files?
Usually No if you already have configuration files.

This creates firebase.json and .firebaserc if they don't already exist.

5. Build your app (if applicable)

For example, with Vite:

npm run build
6. Deploy
firebase deploy --only hosting

You'll see output similar to:

✔  Deploy complete!

Hosting URL: https://your-project-id.web.app
If you've already initialized Firebase before

You can skip firebase init and simply run:

firebase deploy --only hosting

If you're not sure whether the project is already linked, run:

firebase use

It will show the currently selected Firebase project.

If it isn't the one you want, list your projects:

firebase projects:list

Then switch to the correct one:

firebase use your-project-id

Finally:

firebase deploy --only hosting
